
       ---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
                              A LITTLE PC HISTORY 
               WHERE WE'VE BEEN WITH NO IDEA WHERE WE'RE GOING! 

       ---------------------------------------------------------------- 

       In the beginning . . . 

       Computing or calculating by machine began in the middle east 
       with the use of pegs or stones in trays or channels. The 
       Babylonians developed the idea of stone or bead counters into 
       the more modern abacus - modern in the sense that the abacus is 
       still in use today and in the hands of an experienced operator 
       can calculate results faster than a computer!  

       The beauty of the abacus is its simplicity in construction and 
       operation. Inexpensive beads of stone or wood and a simple frame 
       make up the abacus and the uneducated could quickly be trained 
       in its use. 

       In the 8th and 9th centuries we note the rise of the Arabic 
       numeral system which slowly spread through Europe and the then 
       civilized world. Although a superior calculating system, Arabic 
       numerals required the user to understand the more complicated 
       numerical theory associated with the system. 

       By the early 1600's Napier (often associated with the 
       development of logarithms and their practical application) 
       introduced a series of rods which could be used for 
       multiplication - a crude slide rule system. 

       Soon, ever more complicated "calculating engines" or primitive 
       mechanical computing devices appeared. One example is the 
       complex Pascaline invented by Blaise Pascal. 

       By 1791 the stage was set. Babbage, an English mathematician and 
       inventor with the help of Ada Byron (daughter of lord Byron, the 
       famous poet) developed the ideas for two mechanical calculators 
       or "number engines." The Difference Engine was a device to solve 
       polynomial equations by the methods of differences. The 
       Analytical Engine (which was never built)) was designed as a 
       general computing device. Both were mechanical in concept using 
       gears, rods and cams to perform calculations. Unfortunately 
       neither machine was built since the tooling and machining 
       technology of the day was imprecise and could not construct the 
       accurate parts needed. 

       However the models and planning of Babbage and Byron did lead to 
       important preliminary computing concepts still in use today. As 
       an aside, we should note from the work of Babbage and Byron that 
       computing even in its infancy was strongly influenced by BOTH 
       women and men - let's face it, computing is NOT gender specific! 

       Next we jump to the United States. By 1880 a problem had arisen 
       with the United States census. By that time, it took 7 years to 
       process all of the information gathered by the Census Bureau 
       since all tabulation was done by hand on paper. It was assumed 
       that the 1890 census might take 10 to 12 years to tabulate. 
       Clearly a better method was needed to crunch the volume of 
       numbers and data. A public competition was held to produce a 
       better indexing or mechanical system to tabulate future census 
       results. Herman Hollerith, a census employee, handily won by 
       suggesting the use of punch cards and a form of punch card 
       reader which tabulated the results in six weeks. Hollerith, wise 
       in the ways of computing devices and seeing a good opportunity 
       went on to found the Tabulating Machine Company (later changed 
       to IBM). Hollerith might be thus thought of as our first 
       computer entrepreneur! 

       The advent of World War II provided the impetus for the 
       development of more refined computing devices. The Mark I was an 
       electromechanical device using relays. IBM built that computer 
     